[MXNET-1358]Fit api tutorial (#15353)
apache/incubator-mxnet: docs/tutorials/gluon/fit_api_tutorial.md

<!--- specific language governing permissions and limitations -->
<!--- under the License. -->

# MXNet Gluon Fit API

In this tutorial, you will learn how to use the [Gluon Fit API](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/MXNET/Gluon+Fit+API+-+Tech+Design) which is the easiest way to train deep learning models using the [Gluon API](http://mxnet.incubator.apache.org/versions/master/gluon/index.html) in Apache MXNet. 

With the Fit API, you can train a deep learning model with a minimal amount of code. Just specify the network, loss function and the data you want to train on. You don't need to worry about the boiler plate code to loop through the dataset in batches (often called as 'training loop'). Advanced users can train with bespoke training loops, and many of these use cases will be covered by the Fit API.

To demonstrate the Fit API, you will train an image classification model using the [ResNet-18](https://arxiv.org/abs/1512.03385) neural network architecture. The model will be trained using the [Fashion-MNIST dataset](https://research.zalando.com/welcome/mission/research-projects/fashion-mnist/). 

## Prerequisites

To complete this tutorial, you will need:

> - [MXNet](https://mxnet.incubator.apache.org/install/#overview) (The version of MXNet will be >= 1.5.0, you can use `pip install mxnet --pre` to get the latest pip package or build from source with master, refer to [MXNet installation](http://mxnet.incubator.apache.org/versions/master/install/index.html?platform=Linux&language=Python&processor=CPU)

Reviewer: We can update this now since 1.5 is out?

- [Jupyter Notebook](https://jupyter.org/index.html) (For interactively running the provided .ipynb file)

```python
import mxnet as mx
from mxnet import gluon
from mxnet.gluon.model_zoo import vision
from mxnet.gluon.contrib.estimator import estimator
from mxnet.gluon.contrib.estimator.event_handler import TrainBegin, TrainEnd, EpochEnd, CheckpointHandler

gpu_count = mx.context.num_gpus()
ctx = [mx.gpu(i) for i in range(gpu_count)] if gpu_count > 0 else mx.cpu()
```

## Dataset

[Fashion-MNIST](https://research.zalando.com/welcome/mission/research-projects/fashion-mnist/) dataset consists of fashion items divided into ten categories: t-shirt/top, trouser, pullover, dress, coat, sandal, shirt, sneaker, bag and ankle boot. 

- It has 60,000 grayscale images of size 28 * 28 for training.  

> - It has 10,000 grayscale images os size 28 * 28 for testing/validation. 

Reviewer: typo: os->of

<!--- or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file -->
<!--- distributed with this work for additional information -->
<!--- regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file -->
<!--- to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the -->
<!--- "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance -->
<!--- with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at -->

<!---   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 -->

<!--- Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, -->
<!--- software distributed under the License is distributed on an -->
<!--- "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY -->
<!--- KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the -->
<!--- specific language governing permissions and limitations -->
<!--- under the License. -->

# MXNet Gluon Fit API

In this tutorial, we will see how to use the [Gluon Fit API](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/MXNET/Gluon+Fit+API+-+Tech+Design) which is the easiest way to train deep learning models using the [Gluon API](http://mxnet.incubator.apache.org/versions/master/gluon/index.html) in Apache MXNet. 

> With the Fit API, you can train a deep learning model with miminal amount of code. Just specify the network, loss function and the data you want to train on. You don't need to worry about the boiler plate code to loop through the dataset in batches(often called as 'training loop'). Advanced users can still do this for bespoke training loops, but most use cases will be covered by the Fit API.

Author: changed to many

To demonstrate the Fit API, this tutorial will train an Image Classification model using the [ResNet-18](https://arxiv.org/abs/1512.03385) architecture for the neural network. The model will be trained using the [Fashion-MNIST dataset](https://research.zalando.com/welcome/mission/research-projects/fashion-mnist/). 

## Prerequisites

To complete this tutorial, you will need:

> - [MXNet](https://mxnet.incubator.apache.org/install/#overview) (The version of MXNet will be >= 1.5.0)

Author: if build from source it's already 1.5.0 on master, once 1.5.0 release, master will be 1.6.0. Added explaination

- [Jupyter Notebook](https://jupyter.org/index.html) (For interactively running the provided .ipynb file)

```python
import mxnet as mx
from mxnet import gluon
from mxnet.gluon.model_zoo import vision
from mxnet.gluon.contrib.estimator import estimator
from mxnet.gluon.contrib.estimator.event_handler import TrainBegin, TrainEnd, EpochEnd, CheckpointHandler

gpu_count = mx.context.num_gpus()
ctx = [mx.gpu(i) for i in range(gpu_count)] if gpu_count > 0 else mx.cpu()

> mx.random.seed(7) # Set a fixed seed

Author: removed it, if a tutorial is been tested against accuracy (e.g. assert acc > 0.8 after 5 epochs, fixed seed may be added for less flakiness). here we are not checking acc, so removed it

```

```python
# Apply the transformations
fashion_mnist_train = fashion_mnist_train.transform_first(transforms)
fashion_mnist_val = fashion_mnist_val.transform_first(transforms)
```

```python
batch_size = 256 # Batch size of the images
num_workers = 4 # The number of parallel workers for loading the data using Data Loaders.

train_data_loader = gluon.data.DataLoader(fashion_mnist_train, batch_size=batch_size, 
                                          shuffle=True, num_workers=num_workers)
val_data_loader = gluon.data.DataLoader(fashion_mnist_val, batch_size=batch_size, 
                                        shuffle=False, num_workers=num_workers)
```

## Model and Optimizers

Let's load the resnet-18 model architecture from [Gluon Model Zoo](http://mxnet.apache.org/api/python/gluon/model_zoo.html) and initialize it's parameters. The Gluon Model Zoo contains a repository of pre-trained models as well the model architecture definitions. We are using the model architecture from the model zoo in order to train it from scratch.

```python
resnet_18_v1 = vision.resnet18_v1(pretrained=False, classes = 10)
resnet_18_v1.initialize(init = mx.init.Xavier(), ctx=ctx)
```

> We will be using ```SoftmaxCrossEntropyLoss``` as the loss function since this is a multi-class classification problem. We will be using ```sgd``` (Stochastic Gradient Descent) as the optimizer. You can experiment with a different optimizer as well. 

Author: done

                self.loss_history.setdefault(loss_name, []).append(loss_val)
```

```python
# Let's reset the model, trainer and accuracy objects from above

resnet_18_v1.initialize(force_reinit=True, init = mx.init.Xavier(), ctx=ctx)
trainer = gluon.Trainer(resnet_18_v1.collect_params(), 
                        'sgd', {'learning_rate': learning_rate})
train_acc = mx.metric.Accuracy()
```

```python
# Define the estimator, by passing to it the model, loss function, metrics, trainer object and context
est = estimator.Estimator(net=resnet_18_v1,
                          loss=loss_fn,
                          metrics=train_acc,
                          trainer=trainer, 
                          context=ctx)

# Define the handlers, let's say in built Checkpointhandler
checkpoint_handler = CheckpointHandler(model_dir='./',
                                       model_prefix='my_model',
                                       monitor=train_acc,  # Monitors a metric
                                       save_best=True)  # Save the best model in terms of
# Let's instantiate another handler which we defined above 
loss_record_handler = LossRecordHandler()

> # Magic line

Reviewer 2: Lol ok

est.fit(train_data=train_data_loader,
        val_data=val_data_loader,
        epochs=num_epochs,
        event_handlers=[checkpoint_handler, loss_record_handler]) # Add the event handlers
```

    Training begin: using optimizer SGD with current learning rate 0.0400 <!--notebook-skip-line-->
    Train for 2 epochs. <!--notebook-skip-line-->
    
    [Epoch 0] finished in 25.236s: train_accuracy : 0.7917 train_softmaxcrossentropyloss0 : 0.5741 val_accuracy : 0.6612 val_softmaxcrossentropyloss0 : 0.8627 <!--notebook-skip-line-->
    
    [Epoch 1] finished in 24.892s: train_accuracy : 0.8826 train_softmaxcrossentropyloss0 : 0.3229 val_accuracy : 0.8474 val_softmaxcrossentropyloss0 : 0.4262 <!--notebook-skip-line-->
    
    Train finished using total 50s at epoch 1. train_accuracy : 0.8826 train_softmaxcrossentropyloss0 : 0.3229 val_accuracy : 0.8474 val_softmaxcrossentropyloss0 : 0.4262 <!--notebook-skip-line-->

    Training begin <!--notebook-skip-line-->
    Epoch 1, loss 0.5741 <!--notebook-skip-line-->
    Epoch 2, loss 0.3229 <!--notebook-skip-line-->

> You can load the saved model, by using ```load_parameters``` API in Gluon. For more details refer to the [Loading model parameters from file tutorial](http://mxnet.incubator.apache.org/versions/master/tutorials/gluon/save_load_params.html#saving-model-parameters-to-file)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can load the saved model, by using the `load_parameters` API in Gluon. For more details refer to the [Loading model parameters from file tutorial](save_load_params.html#saving-model-parameters-to-file)
```

```python
resnet_18_v1 = vision.resnet18_v1(pretrained=False, classes=10)
resnet_18_v1.load_parameters('./my_model-best.params', ctx=ctx)
```

## Summary

> In this tutorial, we learnt how to use ```Gluon Fit APIs``` for training a deep learning model and also saw an option to customize it with the use of Event Handlers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, you learned how to use Gluon Fit APIs for training a deep learning model and also saw an option to customize it with the use of `Event Handlers`.
```
🇺🇸

> For more references and advanced usage details can be found in the [documentation](http://mxnet.apache.org/api/python/gluon/gluon.html).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
More references and advanced usage details can be found in the [Gluon API documentation](http://mxnet.apache.org/api/python/gluon/gluon.html).
```

## Next Steps 

> - To learn more about deep learning with MXNet Gluon, see [Deep Learning - The Straight Dope](https://gluon.mxnet.io)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- To learn more about deep learning with MXNeT, see [Dive Into Deep Learning](http://gluon.io)
```
D2L > TSD and D2L doesn't have SSL.

> - For more hands on learning about deep learning, check out [Dive into Deep Learning](https://d2l.ai)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```
